In this video I'll explain the basic concepts of the motion and how it can be used to take a running
virtual machine and move it from one ESX host to another and that's the purpose of the motion.
We have virtual machines that are running on one ESX host.
And maybe we need to do some sort of physical maintenance on that host like add more memory or maybe
we need to load balance.
For example maybe one of our ESX hosts is very heavily utilized and we want to take some running virtual
machines and move them off that heavily utilized host to a host that has less virtual machines on it.
That's what we use the motion for is to take a running VM move it from one physical ESX host to another
with no service outage.
So let's take a look at how Wii motion works.
And in this example we see a virtual machine and purple running on ESX I host one and this is where
the live state of our virtual machine is running.
So maybe we need to take down host one for a memory upgrade.
And we want to move our virtual machine to another host using Wii motion this virtual machine also has
a set of files that we see on the right hand side on our data store.
And so we're going to take this virtual machine and move it to a different ESX host.
It must still be able to access those files.
We cannot have our virtual machine losing access to its files because one of those files is a VM decay
and that VME K is my virtual machines.
C-drive.
Or one of its virtual disks.
So it's imperative that if a VM is going to move from one host to another that it is still able to access
all of its files on the data store.
And so to do that we're going to need what's called shared storage.
And when you hear that term shared storage.
Just think of it this way.
Shared storage is a data store that is accessible across multiple ESX I host it.
So we've got this data store that's available on multiple hosts.
And so if my VM moves from Host 1 to host 2 it's still going to be able to access all of its files.
So here we see my virtual machine has just moved from Host 1 to host 2.
It still has access to its data store because the data store is shared storage and is accessible across
multiple hosts.
And notice on the left hand side the virtual machine is connected to a virtual switch and those virtual
switches are also identically configured so that my VM does not lose access to the network when it moves
the IP address of the virtual machine does not change so that address still needs to provide connectivity
when that VM moves to another host.
OK so let's take a look at an example of what actually happens when we carry out of emotion.
So again my VM is running on host ESX 0 1 and we've configured something called the VM kernel por for
emotion.
The point of a VM kernel port is to handle special traffic.
It's not for Virtu machine traffic it's for other stuff.
So the VM kernel port in this case is marked for Wii motion traffic and what it's going to do is facilitate
a creation of a copy of that virtual machine the destination host.
Right.
So let's rewind here.
My virtual machine is running on ESX I host one right now and it's got stuff running in memory it's
accessing a virtual network interface.
It's accessing storage.
We need to copy the state of that VM to the destination host.
And that's the point of the Wii motion VM kernel port.
And once that copy is complete now I've got an exact duplicate of that VM running on the destination
host.
And so what will happen then is any final changes anything that changed during the Wii motion will also
be copied over and the VM on Host 1 will be halted.
And the VM on Host 2 will take over.
And now we've successfully Wii motion the virtual machine from Host 1 to host 2.
And like I said there's no outage associated with this.
We do need to have the center in place and you may notice a slight bump in latency while this Wii motion
occurs.
But again there's no noticeable outage.
So the motion is used to take a running virtual machine and move it from one host to another.
This is not the only type of motion with these for sex.
We can actually take a virtual machine that's running on a host managed by one V Center instance and
move it to a host managed by another.
The center instance and so prior to these first six this was not possible.
Now we can use crossover center V motion to move a running VM from one host managed by one V Center
server to another host managed by a different the center server.
Another change in these first six is the fact that long distance Wii motion is now supported over connections
with up to 150 milliseconds of latency and we have this ability to take a virtual machine that's running
Wii motion with no service interruption across a long geographic distance as long as that physical connection
does not have more than 150 milliseconds of latency.
We can even migrate virtual machines from one virtual switch to another using cross network Wii motion.
And so in this lesson we learned how Wii motion can be used to take a running VM move it from one host
to another and how we need a Wii motion VM kernel port in order to copy the required information.
These first six introduced a number of new Wii motion features like cross the center of the motion cross
a virtual switch Wii motion and long distance Wii motion with networks up to 150 milliseconds of latency.